so I've been sold in 100 for a few
months now and with almost no real
practice average somewhere in the 35 or
40 second range now that's not really
that great so I'm not really an expert
but I think I'll still be able to give
you some pointers on how to get started
with salt and Road escape just using one
hand okay so first of all you want to
choose which hand you're going to use
the choice is rather arbitrary and there
are many people use the left hand and
almost just as many that use the right
hand and I don't think that there's a
big correlation between whether or not
you're left-handed or right-handed for
example I chose left hand because the
I'm right-handed I just left hand
because the cube felt all the more
stable in my left hand that and I also
wanted to be able to eat with my right
hand oh I saw with my left one of the
advantages that most of the algorithms
you already know are probably very are a
new heavy and it is just quite awkward
in my opinion to do the arm moves with
the right hand so I suggest you probably
try to use left first and just switch if
it feels wrong but it's mostly on
personal preference okay I'll be
explaining everything from the
perspective of someone he consults with
their left hand because I solved with my
left hand so I hope that makes sense so
basic moves you get down like this
that's pretty self-explanatory you prime
I do like that and I don't think that
there is a better way to do it
for ours I use my pinky like this I know
that some people use their ring finger
to put for our prime I use my index
finger like this and I know that that's
not the best way and I've been recently
trying to switch using pinky like this
in some cases and I know that some
people actually use ring finger to do
those moves and that's just ridiculous
those people are clearly an abomination
because I just I just don't see how you
do that and you want to practice a lot
of combinations so rnu UNR and all those
combo moves up ulr because everything
your entire one-handed solves going to
compose of these two moves and cube
rotations of course so you want them to
be really quick okay so now the actual
solve so cross the net well you'll
probably do the same way as you do
two-handed you'll most likely find that
tool to be easy because you will have
plenty of time to look ahead unlike in
the 200 so now where it gets really
interesting though is the oil step and
you have a couple of options based on
how lazy or not as you are obviously if
you are really serious about 100 cubing
you will learn all the one-handed oils
and I'll give you links to all of those
if you are less serious you will attempt
to use the same oils you probably use
for the two-handed selves now that's
what I do
and but you will most likely find it
very difficult to execute these
algorithms with just one hand now I know
it was very difficult for me and I had
to relearn most of these oils for one
hand simply by doing them with both
hands and then trying to see what the
hell I was doing it's just not as easy
as it sounds
now if you are even less serious we'll
probably use the - Latoya which is how
it started
where I only need to relearn a couple of
algorithms the seven algorithms where
all the edges are oriented correctly now
still for the OL all you have more
options another thing that you can learn
as the zbf 12 which are basically
algorithms for inserting the last f2l
pair in such a way that when you're done
inserting it all the edges are oriented
so for example for this case where the
two edges here are correctly oriented
there's only like eight cases I think
for this case in particular you don't
insert it like normal you would but
instead you use the art prime F R F
prime insertion and that guarantees that
your Cross will be solved when you
insert it so there's eight of those and
so you could try that as well the last
approach that you can use this to do the
petrous method approach to solving the F
- well because specialist method
approach guarantees that once you finish
after well you will come out with all
the edges oriented on the top so again
you only have to relearn those seven oil
cases with for one hand now adventurous
method you don't do the cross or
anything like that but you build this
two by two by three block like this
then you hold a cube just like that and
do some where you do some magic here
which I'm not going to explain but
basically orient all the edges in this
step so that was magic there you can
check the links for how to do this in
detail and now basically you only solve
them after a while using RNA moves after
this and that will guarantee that once
you finish up - all you're guaranteed to
run into a case where although all the
edges are rented correctly so you can
solve the oil easily so a for the PLL
you don't have that many options you can
basically use the tulip below or you can
relearn the two-handed PLL's for one
hand which is what I did or you can look
up a special one-handed PLL's and I'll
be belongs to those and it just so
happens that all those links actually
are from people that use the left hand
as well so you want to use the left hand
that you want to learn from those
algorithms so it's just because I'm lazy
I'm executing this awkward peel for this
case that was meant for two hands so
again you want to find something better
if you're serious at all
okay and the last name with the stress
that learning to solve one hand that
just takes practice more than anything
for example I have all this awesome
theoretical knowledge and yet the cube
does not feel stable in my right hand
and I probably average a minute or two
with it there's just nothing I can do
about it it's very much of a practice
thing so just make sure you do a lot of
that and you'll be cubing one headed in
no time and that's it for now all right
okay so I know that you guys really like
the blooper sister but nothing really
funny happened during making of this
video but I'll share with you a trick
instead so it's really hard to do a
one-handed moves with your right hand
for me with the other hand but it's
surprisingly easy to mirror moves across
the cubes not sure why it's got
something to do with how screwed up we
are in the head and how the brain
actually goes but anyway it's
surprisingly easy to do with just a
little bit of practice and if you have a
good few one like this cube here and
then actually you can look like you're
solving two heads that two cubes at the
same time but actually you're just
mirroring all the moves across and it's
a surprisingly easy and kind of fun
so try